SECTION 3: Exception Handling & Modules (Concepts 21–30)
Concepts
21. What is exception handling?
22. What is try-except?
23. What is the finally block?
24. What is a module?
25. What is a package?
26. How do you import modules?
27. What are built-in modules?
28. What is the with statement?
29. What are comments?
30. How do you write multi-line comments?

21. What is Exception Handling?
When an error occurs during program execution, Python normally stops the program.
Exception handling allows us to handle runtimeerrors and continue execution instead of crashing the program.
It improves the reliability and user-friendliness of an application.
num = int(input("Enter a number: "))
print(num) 
try:
    num = int(input("Enter a number: "))
    print(num)
except ValueError:
    print("Please enter a valid number")

try-the block which has the risky code
except - handles if any error occur in try block
finally - this block willl be executed anyways

compiletime vs runtime
compile time is when human-readable source code is translated into machine-readable code - compile errors During source code compilation.
while runtime is when that translated code is actively executed by a computer - runtime errors During program execution.
example:-
Think of compile time as baking a cake using a recipe (checking for missing ingredients), and 
runtime as eating the cake (finding out it tastes bad because you accidentally used salt instead of sugar).

22. What is try-except?
try contains code that may cause an error.
except contains code that runs if an error occurs.
Example
try:
    result = 10 / 0
except ZeroDivisionError:
    print("Cannot divide by zero")

23. What is finally?
The finally block always executes whether an exception occurs or not.
try:
    print(10 / 2)
except:
    print("Error")
finally:
    print("Execution completed")

Commonly used for:
Closing files - Closing database connections - Releasing resources

24. What is a Module?
A module is simply a Python file containing functions, variables, and classes that can be reused.
Example file:
in mymodule.py
pi=3.14
def add(a,b):
    return a+b
def mul(a,b):
    return a*b   

in main.py
import mymodule
res=mymodule.add(4,5)
print(res)         

in terminal python main.py
9

25. What is a Package?
A package is a directory containing multiple modules that helps organize Python code.
project/
│
├── math_utils/
│   ├── add.py
│   ├── subtract.py
│   └── __init__.py

math_utils is a package here

In Python, a directory refers to a folder on your computer's filesystem used to organize, store, and group files and other subdirectories.

26. How do you Import Modules?
You import a module in Python by using the import keyword followed by the name of the module.
example: import math
Why import modules?
To reuse already written code instead of rewriting functionality.

27. What are Built-in Modules?
Built-in modules are modules that come pre-installed with Python and provide ready-made functionality.
examples:
math-mathematical operation
random-The Python random module is a built-in library used to generate pseudo-random numbers and perform randomized operations like shuffling data or picking random items from a collection.
datetime - used to manipulate dates, times, and time intervals.
os -  provides a portable way to interact with the underlying operating system
sys - a built-in library that provides variables and functions used to interact directly with the Python interpreter and manage its runtime environment. 

28. What is the with Statement?
The with statement automatically manages resources and ensures they are properly closed after use.
if any error occurs the pyhton files remains open so using with statemrnt the file will be automatically closed

file = open("data.txt", "r")
data = file.read()
file.close()
With with
with open("data.txt", "r") as file:
    data = file.read()

29. What are Comments?
Comments are ignored by Python and used to explain code
Comments improve code readability and help developers understand the logic.
# - used

30. How do you write Multi-line Comments?
Python doesn't have a dedicated multi-line comment syntax.
Usually we use:
""" or ' ' ' 
This is a
multi-line comment
""" or ' ' '

Task 3: Safe File Reader
Objective: Read files safely with proper error handling.
Input: File name
Expected Output: File contents or user-friendly error message
Mandatory Requirements:
● Use with statement
● Handle FileNotFoundError
● Use finally

file_name = input("Enter file name: ")
try:
    with open(file_name, "r") as file:
        data = file.read()
        print("File found:", data)
        
except FileNotFoundError:
    print("File not found")

finally:
    print("File operation completed...")















































































































































































