SECTION 1: Python Fundamentals (Concepts 1–10)
Concepts
1. What is Python?
2. What are the key features of Python?
3. What is the difference between Python 2 and Python 3?
4. Why is Python called an interpreted language?
5. What are the major applications of Python?
6. What is PEP 8?
7. What are Python’s built-in data types?
8. What is the difference between a list and a tuple?
9. What is a dictionary in Python?
10. What is a set?

1. What is Python?
Python is a high-level, interpreted, object-oriented, general-purpose programming language known for its simple and readable syntax and used for web development, automation, data science, AI/ML, and scripting.

2. What are the key features of Python?
Easy to learn, Readable syntax, Interpreted language,Object-oriented,Platform independent,Large standard library, Open source

3. What is the difference between Python 2 and Python 3?
Python 3 is the latest version with better Unicode support, improved syntax, and ongoing support, while Python 2 is discontinued.

4. Why is Python called an interpreted language?
Python code is executed line by line by the Python interpreter rather than being compiled completely before execution.

5. What are the major applications of Python?
Web Development
Data Science
Machine Learning
Artificial Intelligence
Automation
Desktop Applications
Cybersecurity

6. What is PEP 8?
PEP 8 is the official style guide for writing Python code that improves readability and consistency in Python code.
It defines:
Variable naming conventions, Indentation rules, Spacing, Code formatting

7. What are Python Built-in Data Types?
Python has several built-in data types that are used to store different kinds of information, classified into categories based on their behavior and characteristics
numeric - int,float,complex
sequence - list,tuple,string
mapping - dict
set - set,frozenset
boolean - bool

8. Difference Between List and Tuple
list is a mutable datatyoe whereAS TUuple is immutable
list uses  [] and tuple uses ()
Can modify data and cannot modify

"ordered" means a data structure remembers the exact sequence in which elements were added, allowing you to retrieve or loop through them in that same order. 
"Unordered" means the data structure does not guarantee any specific sequence, so elements have no fixed position or index

9. What is a Dictionary?
A dict is a mutable and ordered datatype which stores the data as key value pairs  dict() or {key:value}
key-immutable value-mutable
key should be uniq , val can be same for all keys

10. What is a Set?
A set is an unordered collection of unique elements it stores unique values and is commonly used to remove duplicates. set() or {}

Task 1: Student Data Management System
Objective: Build a program to store and manage student academic data.
Input:
● Student name
● Roll number
● List of subjects (may contain duplicates)
● Marks for each subject
Expected Output:
● Student details printed clearly
● Duplicate subjects removed
● Subjects mapped with marks
Mandatory Requirements:
● Use list, set, and dictionary
● Follow PEP 8 naming conventions

student_name=input("Enter  name: ")
roll_number=int(input("Enter roll number: "))
subjects=input("Enter subjects seperated by spaces: ").split()

#to remove duplicate
unique_subjects=list(set(subjects))

subject_marks={}
for subject in subjects:
    marks=int(input(f"enter marks for {subject}: "))
    subject_marks[subject]=marks

print("\n --student detail--")
print("Name: ",student_name)
print("Rollnumber: ",roll_number)

print("\n --student subject and marks--")
for subject,marks in subject_marks.items():
    print(subject ,":", marks)

output:
Enter  name: nav
Enter roll number: 09
Enter subjects seperated by spaces: python java java go rust python
enter marks for python: 90
enter marks for rust: 80
enter marks for java: 80
enter marks for go: 78

 --student detail--
Name:  nav
Rollnumber:  9

 --student subject and marks--
python : 90
rust : 80
java : 80
go : 78


















































































































































































